Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in meditator for introducer Tauriel we will
wrap up the practical section of the course.
There are five main areas relating to testing and optimization of Robert in preparation to launch it
on a large scale real account.
And today I wanted to briefly touch on each of them and give you three main points for each one that
you could take away from this course for your own future testing and optimizations.
So the main five areas are optimisation and backtesting forward tests demo tests real tests and rolling
optimization.
So let's have a look at each one of them in more detail optimization and backtesting.
This bit was the first part that we did in this section and as you remember we optimized our expert
Yser we had so many different sets of parameters that we can look through them all through all of them
so we had to pick out the ones that we liked the most.
So the main three key takeaways takeaways here are that the more sets you pick out from this part of
the preparation process the better because then you'll be able to filter them out and pick out the best
ones out of the ones you pick.
Now of course the more set to pick the more work you'll have to do.
But it also increases your choice and likelihood of picking out a really good set.
Also don't forget to check the results on a graph.
So once you've got the optimization results don't just look for the highest profit or the lowest drawdown
.
Also make sure that you always run the back test for each one of the ones that you want to pick out
and look at the graph because the graph will tell you much more than the stats can and will help you
pick out the sets that you're actually comfortable with.
And finally be creative.
Remember how we picked out our sets when only looking for the highest profit.
We looked at the highest profit and then we tried to mix up the different types of start hours and we
looked for low drawdown so don't be afraid to dive deep into your optimization results and see what
you can find there.
Forward tests.
Three main key takeaways here are avoid curve fitting.
So the forward test is designed to help you to avoid curve fitting you optimize on this.
For example three months and then use next month argue statical daughter to run a forward test and that
helps you make sure that you're not just fitting your expert visor to make profit on that particular
period of time where you run optimization.
The forward test is like a an additional verification process to make sure that you avoid it for a curve
fitting.
And as you recall we did have results that were good on optimization.
All of the factors but you were very poor on those tests performed very poorly on the four tests and
we with that they would curve fitting test sets and we had to get rid of them.
Next eliminate duplicate.
If you have very similar sets that have similar balance graphs in their back tests then you don't wouldn't
probably want to move on with ball for those sets onto a demo test because they will be very ill have
similar results.
Like remember we had two sets that had the our starting our 9.
Their results were very similar so that means that you kind of doubling your risks if you launch both
of them on a real account because they will probably have drawdowns at the same time and that means
your account will have a double double drawdown.
So try to eliminate those in the forward test and finally be generous.
Forward test is not a stage of your preparation process where you would want to eliminate as many sets
as you can.
No you just want to eliminate the duplicate ones and the ones that are obviously curve fit it.
The rest you can move on to the demo test and see how they go there so as long as the set kind of holds
its own during the forward test as long as it's not rapidly losing money you might want to move that
one to a demo test and see how it performs their demo test.
Three main key takeaways.
Lenth the depends on system and that's that's a very valid point that if you're running an expert wise
on the fifteen minute chart then you might even have like 5 trades per day and say one week of tests
will give you 25 trades and that might be sufficient for you or two weeks of trades will you 50 fifty
two weeks of testing will give you 50 trades and that that can be sufficient for you to evaluate this
particular set.
Whereas if your test if your expert was running on the hour each hour like we had or even on the daily
chart then you can have as low as a couple of trades a week and then you would need to run your test
for a month or two on the demarc and just to be able to have sufficient a sufficient number of observations
to eliminate or approve a certain set.
So it really depends on the system but my general advice is that don't run a demo test for less than
a week because you at least want to see how your expert advice behaves in different market conditions
that occur through the daily cycle of night and day and when markets open and close and also how it
works on different days of the week or closer to the weekend and in the midweek and so on.
And generally also don't run the demo test for too long because sometimes especially you have a shorter
period or expert advisers working on shorter time frames you will notice that the market conditions
can change and that will be like if you're running dimittis for a month.
Then what was at the start of the month and what is at the end or if you're running for like three months
.
What is at the end of your test period.
The market can actually be different.
And your expert adviser said might start underperforming by then.
So just it's a it's your judgment call.
How long to run your test.
Don't don't run for less than a week and don't run it for too long.
That will allow the market to change.
Run multiple Tessman Tennessee as you saw we were on four demo tests at the same time.
Very convenient because it's more efficient you can run up to 8 10 as many as you want because that
way you are actually you can compare them between each other and you're more efficient in the sense
that you don't have to if something if a demo test fails for said is underperforming you don't have
to restart the whole thing for a different set.
You really have other sites running so you can just get rid of the underperforming sets along the way
and you at the end you'll have the best performing ones and be strict.
Anything that comes out of the test is going on you know real money account or a small real account
for further testing and that's actually a real money and you don't want to be fooling around with unprofitable
like sets that you know that aren't profitable.
So if something's underperforming on them and just get rid of it don't don't even try taking it to the
next step real test.
So it's a real mini test.
You have to do this for every broker and account type So whenever you change your broker or you change
that even that accountable for when one broker you have to first of all check your follow back test
and for tests like we did just to make sure that they are more or less aligned for you.
On the demo count and also you need to run this mini real test because the real market conditions can
be very different to what you were used to when your previous broker or an account or account.
And that can impact your ability of your spirit wise and you don't want to uncover that on a large scale
real account you want to see if that is the case you want to see it on a small account so that your
losses are minimized and just on that as well.
Trading is always risky especially trading of expert Wise's is a risky process.
But by doing all of these steps by doing optimizations forward test back tests and demo tests and many
real contests you are performing a due diligence process you are making sure that you're undergoing
all of the steps that you can possibly undergo to minimize your risks.
And that way you're filtering out the sets for your expert Yser that are unprofitable and that are that
can impact negatively your account.
That way you kind of by going through the due diligence process you are making sure that you've done
everything you possibly could and that where you're minimizing the risks substantially and also you've
got a clear conscious that
there is a very low likelihood of something going on.
There still is because it's a risky process trading.
But at least you've done everything you could so just make sure you do go through this through all of
these steps every time you change a broker or an account type parallel testing.
That is something that we saw in this section of the course.
That's when you run your a real test in parallel to your demo test and that is actually a good thing
because you can compare as they go and you can see where the discrepancies are in real time.
You can see that on your tests certain trades have been opened and on your real test or not.
And that can maybe give you extra ideas of why it's happening and maybe give you raise some red flags
about this real account.
On the other hand you will see that everything is very similar and that means everything should be good
.
And finally in your real test you don't just be strict.
Be very picky and ruthless about the results.
If something's underperforming and your real test do not take it to the next level to the large scale
a real account.  if you're not happy with something even in the slightest manner I would advise against
taking it further because when you take something to a large scale real account the game is on you are
trading big money and especially if that's not your money you don't want systems that you're not confident
in trading there.
You always have to have a clear conscience and you have to be able to say to yourself that you've done
that you diligence process and that you've you're happy with the systems that are trading and that will
help you sleep better at night when it froze.
Robots are making money for you.
And finally rolling optimization.
So this is something that we haven't discussed yet.
The main concept behind it is that nothing last forever.
There is no expert adviser or no set out there in the world that will always make money.
The market's always changing the market's dynamic conditions are changing.
Governments are changing their regulations doing interventions.
Everything is changing all the time.
So you have to constantly adapt to the market your systems you have to adapt your trading systems and
market and inch in.
In a nutshell that means that you want to make sure that while you're externalizes are trading on your
life scale real account in the back like in the background you're still running rerunning optimizations
once in a while maybe once a week maybe once once a month you rerun your optimization you see if there
if you said it has been performing well fits.
If it's underperforming if it's if there's a way to improve it if it is there's a better set and so
on.
So we'll talk in more detail about this in the next section of the course but there is just something
to note that nothing lasts forever and you have to be prepared that sooner or later you will have to
really optimize your expert advisors or maybe even change your expert Wise's or change the sets and
so on.
So that's all for today I hope you enjoyed this section.
On the practical side of things I think we achieved some outstanding results we're far demo tests and
even real tests.
And I look forward to seeing in the next section of the course until then happy trading.